Toolkit VI Code Optimizer
-------------------------
The Code Optimizer Toolkit is designed for the advanced programmer who needs to reduce the code size of an application program and/or increase its runtime speed. The Toolkit consists of two modules -- the Code Optimizer and Source Code for the Kyan Runtime Library. The Optimizer performs two major functions:

1. It modifies the intermediate macro file generated by the compiler ("P.OUT")so that the Assembler generates "Program Specific Code" (i.e., code which includes only those Runtime Library routines which are specifically required by the program).

2. It replaces certain combinations of compiler-generated macros with optimizer macros which shorten code size and increase the runtime speed of the application program. (The areas most improved by the Optimizer are global variable accesses and record field
calculations.)

The Optimizer can reduce the size of a program by more than fifty percent and, in some cases, almost the double execution speed. The following results were achieved using the Code Optimizer on the Sieve of Erotosthenes.

Program         Compiled only   Optimized      Improvement
----------------------------------------------------------
Code Size       12.9K Bytes     3.1K Bytes     9.8K
Runtime Speed   15 seconds      5 seconds      10 seconds

The Source code for the Runtime Library also offers the programmer the following advantages:

1. The separate Kyan Pascal Runtime Library is not longer required on the disk. Now the application and the Pascal Runtime Library routines are combined in a single executable file.

2. The programmer can customize library routines (written in assembly language source code) to optimize performance and/or meet the specific needs of an application program.

The Code Optimizer Toolkit is a valuable tool for those programmers who are writing large applications and/or who are using MouseText, MouseGraphics, or Advanced Graphics routines in their programs. The Toolkit requires Version 2.0 of Kyan Pascal and can be used on any Apple II with 64K. It retails for $149.95 (plus shipping).
